docs: create security and permissions file (#13748)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/security-and-permissions.md

# Security and Permissions

## Permission comparison

> | Permission        | Renovate hosted app |  Forking Renovate  | Why                                                           |

Author: @rarkins Do you want me to add an `email` row?

Question from user:

> I want to configure Renovate GitHub App for my organization but first, need information on why this permission is requested.
> 
> ![Screenshot 2022-02-24 at 15 21 45](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77614220/155667485-58ebd8b3-8ef6-405b-b0f9-2b0b484ca908.png)

@rarkins response:

> User permissions are used only if you log into the app dashboard and authorise with oauth. Ie you "sign in with GitHub" and in the process agree to the site terms, and your consent is stored against your email.
> 
> This doesn't grant (as far as I'm aware) the app to automatically gather any email addresses, and nor do we.

https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions/14405

Reviewer: It's best for a different table. The email part is related to the dashboard, and it's a permission that's granted only per-user when they log in and not per-installation when it's installed.

| Permission        | Renovate hosted app |  Forking Renovate  | Why                                                 |
| ----------------- | :-----------------: | :----------------: | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Dependabot alerts |       `read`        |       `read`       | Create security updates                             |
| Administration    |       `read`        |       `read`       | ...                                                 |
| Metadata          |       `read`        |       `read`       | Get basic repository information                    |
| Checks            | `read` and `write`  |   not applicable   | ...                                                 |
| Code              | `read` and `write`  |       `read`       | Find Renovate config file and package manager files |
| Commit statuses   | `read` and `write`  | `read` and `write` | ...                                                 |
| Issues            | `read` and `write`  | `read` and `write` | Create dependency dashboard                         |
| Pull Requests     | `read` and `write`  | `read` and `write` | Create update PRs                                   |

> | Workflows         | `read` and `write`  |   not applicable   | Update dependencies in workflow files               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Workflows         | `read` and `write`  |   not applicable   | Explicit permission needed in order to update workflows |
```

> | Deployments       |   not applicable    |       `read`       | ...                                                 |

Reviewer: I think this is a mistake actually, can be removed

Author: > I think this is a mistake actually, can be removed

Are you sure about removing it from the table? Here's a screenshot from the current Forking Renovate app installation screen:

![forking-renovate-install-screen](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34918129/152768832-a15c062c-6a75-41a9-a7c7-ed253d9dbbc3.png)

Reviewer: I added alerts and removed deployments

# Security and Permissions

> 

Author: Comment to remind us that we need to discuss our security stance (when to make a security disclosure, etc), and add it to this document.

## Comparison table

Refer to this table for a overview of the permissions needed for the different ways to run Renovate:

| Permission name   | Renovate hosted app |  Forking Renovate  |
| ----------------- | :-----------------: | :----------------: |

> | Dependabot alerts |       `read`        |   not applicable   |

Author: I think the full fat Renovate app needs `Dependabot alerts` `read` access to be able to provide security update PRs?

Forking Renovate doesn't have `read` access to the Dependenda bot security alerts. Does this mean that Forking Renovate doesn't raise security PRs?

If so, should I go edit the docs for Forking Renovate to mention this drawback?

https://docs.renovatebot.com/getting-started/running/#forking-renovate-app

Reviewer: I think we should maybe add the permissions

Author: If I were running Forking Renovate, I would expect it to be able to open security update PRs, after all that's what I'm using the update dependencies bot for in the first place. So I think it would make sense to add the permission/feature.

In the end, it's your app, so your choice. 😉

Reviewer: Yes, I think it's just an oversight

| Administration    |       `read`        |       `read`       |
| Metadata          |       `read`        |       `read`       |
| Checks            | `read` and `write`  |   not applicable   |
| Code              | `read` and `write`  |       `read`       |
| Commit statuses   | `read` and `write`  | `read` and `write` |
| Issues            | `read` and `write`  | `read` and `write` |

> | Pull Requests     | `read` and `write`  | `read` and `write` |

Author: Our current Forking Renovate docs say that it only needs `read` access to the repository, but this seems to be wrong, according to the GitHub permissions overview for the Forking Renovate app.

Forking Renovate needs `write` access to:

- Commit statuses
- Issues
- Pull Requests

> **Benefits**
> 
> Forking Renovate needs only read level access to any repository it runs on.

https://docs.renovatebot.com/getting-started/running/#benefits

Reviewer: It's meant to mean read access to the *code*

Author: I'll go open a PR to fix the line in the docs.

| Workflows         | `read` and `write`  |   not applicable   |

> | Deployments       |   not applicable    |       `read`       |

Author: It's a bit odd that Forking Renovate needs `read` access to `deployments` while the full fat hosted Renovate app does not.

Reviewer: Maybe we can have a common place to document why/how each permission is used. Can we do it in the first table to avoid duplication?

Author: > Can we do it in the first table to avoid duplication?

I've put a _why_ column in the table. 😉 

> It's a bit odd that Forking Renovate needs `read` access to `deployments` while the full fat hosted Renovate app does not.

Do you want to make the permissions equal for both apps?

## List of permissions

### Renovate hosted app

> The Renovate hosted app needs the following permissions.

Author: I don't know enough to say _why_ each app needs certain permissions. So help wanted on this. 😉
